So the way we develop code
is essentially this, right?
Everybody does this.
The question is, when we do the testing,
do we do it manually or
do we do it in an automatic fashion,
right?
Nobody goes and writes huge amounts
of code at once and checks it in.
Everybody writes a little bit of code and
then you do something to test it.
Whether it's manual or
automatic, it doesn't matter, but
you do something to test it, right?
You don't write code for
months without ever running it.
>> I was gonna say, hopefully [LAUGH].
>> Hopefully, I mean, but
the point is that there is always this
testing cycle that happens, right?
And so the only thing I'm trying
to convince you of like, look,
you're gonna do this anyway,
let's just not do it manually.
Let's just automate it so
that the computer does it for you so
that you can really focus
on just writing code.
And as you are developing things,
you have more and
more tests that you build up over time.
And these tests were
essentially requirements, or
assumptions, or something you
expected to be true all the time.
And as time goes on,
you just build up a huge repertoire of it.
And hopefully,
you've read it in a way that is easy for
others to kinda look at it and understand
like, yeah, I understand why they
wrote this test because they wanted to
assert something or something useful.
This should be true or something of that
sort, and then you build up over time.
So the thing I'm trying to convince
you of is that at the end of the day,
this is how everybody does coding.
I have never seen anybody not
doing it this particular way.
The question just becomes,
are the tests automated or not, right?
If they're manual,
then they're fundamentally limited,
because you're not gonna remember to do
all the possible testing all the times.
You're gonna only do a subset
because it takes time and
chances are you gonnav forget stuff and
problems will arise.
So what kind of tests do you have?
Well, you can split it in
a lot of different ways.
You can talk about testing level,
for example, unit test,
integration test,
system test, acceptance test.
You can split it by functionality, for
example, does it do the right thing?
Does it do it fast enough?
Does it do it in a secure way?
Does it do it in a way where
usability matters, right?
You take a random person off the street
and sit them behind the software,
will they be able to do the right thing,
or
does it take a complicated
set of training?
Is it accessible, right?
Those are different kind of tests.
Automation, which is, have I managed to
automate it or is it manual tests, right?
If you think about
the old way of doing QA,
what you would have is just documents,
pages and
pages of checklist of what the QA would
have to go and click on and assert, etc.
You're just using a human as
a very slow and inefficient CPU.
And of course,
we have regression and smoke.
Regression being, I thought the system
was working, I discovered a bug.
I'm gonna add this particular
scenario now to my test suite so
that it doesn't happen again.
And a smoke test usually happens
when you have a large system and
you wanna determine if
everything works correctly.
But the number of tests you have is so
huge that it takes maybe hours to run.
And so you select a subsection of the test
that kind of give you a sanity check.
Did you really break anything or
the basics stopped working?
So you would have a smoke test.
So there's a lot of different
kinds of way of doing testing or
what we can talk about.
>> Do we need to follow the test-driven
development or is it optional?
>> So test-driven development,
that's a very good question.
And it's a complicated answer,
because I'm a big fan of test-driven
development, but at the same time,
I am not gonna lie to you and
tell you that I do it all the time.
It's a mixture of both, right?
Sometimes you do TDD,
because it makes sense for you.
Sometimes I'm not exactly sure what I'm
doing and so I'm kind of experimenting
with things, and then I have to go
back and add the test afterwards.
And I can tell you that whenever you
go back and add the test afterwards,
you're gonna miss stuff.
You're never gonna cover everything.
So I try heavily to prefer
TDD whenever I can, but
I don't always do it and
there are various set of reasons why not.
But in general, you want to do
it in a test-driven form first.
An example of that would be you wanna make
a new feature, right, and so you write
a test that basically demonstrates this
particular feature in its simplest form.
And now you have a test that doesn't work,
right?
So now, you have something that you
can easily run over and over and
easily get under the debugger and
easily put console log statements in your
application that gonna
figure out what's going on.
And once you have this scenario that isn't
working, now your job is to go back and
go and implement this, right?
And so you start implementing it,
whatever it takes until the test pass.
And when the tests pass,
the thing you should be doing is to try to
implement just the bare minimum
of what the test requires, right?
So you do the bare minimum first, and then
you write another test that is a little
more complicated, a little more involved,
or test a corner case or
something of that sort, and
then you go back and implement it.
So that's the idea of
test-driven development.
But as I said, while I think ideally
you wanna do that all the time,
sometimes there are reasons
where that might not work.
So I don't wanna just basically preach
something that I myself sometimes
don't do.
Okay, so let's talk about scope.
So unit tests are the lowest scope,
and we're gonna actually have hands-on
building, etc, this is kind of
a theory portion, so to speak.
And we're focusing on individual units.
And so what's a unit?
A unit would be a individual function,
or a class, or a file.
Typically, in the same file,
you put related code together, right?
So that will be a unit.
And what we mean by unit is that really,
you can think of a test as
a harness in the sense that it takes
that unit that you wanna test and
then pokes at it with different scenarios,
inputs,
whatever you wanna call it, and
it asserts as particular outputs.
It's like, if I do this,
I expect that to happen.
And a unit test really just says that it's
very clear as to where you should look for
a problem, right?
If I poke over here and
the stuff doesn't work over here,
there should be very limited
number of suspects for you, right?
If I have a function that is sorting
things by distance from something,
then it should be very easy for me,
if the sort comes out incorrect,
to pinpoint where the mistake is.
Not necessarily where it is, but
which code to look for it, right?
There's another extreme, if you have an
end-to-end test which tries to log you in
and then goes to the Settings page and
change your email address and
this test fails, who knows where
the issue might have been, right?
There's so many layers involved
that becomes very, very difficult.
So I'm just kind of putting the two
extremes on a table over here.
And so usually, what we mean by unit test
is something that is very well defined.
The other kind of hallmark of unit
test is that they're isolated, right?
You will never have a flakiness
inside a unit test, or you shouldn't.
I can't imagine how you would get
a flakiness into a unit test, right,
because it's fully isolated.
And because of that also,
they're extremely fast, right?
You should be able to run
thousands of them in a second.
That should be not a problem.
As a matter of fact, if you think about
it, unit tests are typically CPU-bound.
And it's typically extremely difficult
to keep a CPU busy for a second, unless
you're going through huge amount of IO
where you're moving a lot of data across.
Actually, just keeping the CPU busy for
a second with just pure computation
is kinda tricky or difficult.
The amount of code you would have
to write would be ridiculous.
So unit tests are essentially
tests that then make an assertion
typically about how things are done.
And so they do tend to fall into this
category of like, if I change the way I am
doing things, I'll probably invalidate
a whole bunch of unit tests, right?
I don't know, if you're processing an
order and one of these steps in the order
is to sort things by the distance in your
warehouse or something like that and
you decide that that algorithm
no longer is true, but
instead you wanna apply
a different kind of algorithm.
You're probably gonna invalidate a whole
bunch of tests that have to do with
distance measurements, right,
but that's kind of expected.
So that brings us to a higher level test,
which is the integration test.
An integration test basically says, hey,
can I have a bunch of
related things to together.
So I'm no longer testing one thing,
but whole bunch of things together.
So a order of workflow might be something
like an integration test, right,
where you're saying, if I start with this
workflow, this particular order, and
I go through these steps, I assert that I
have it in stock and I wanna ship it, etc.
The state machine changes in, I should
eventually get to this particular output.
And so there,
it becomes a little more nebulous as to if
things fail, where to look for
the problem, right?
Because who knows which part of the system
has kinda produce this particular issue.
And so integration tests,
though have really nice property,
though that typically they don't
tell you how things are done.
They only say, given this beginning,
I wanna make sure I end up over here.
How exactly you get
there is not my concern.
And so integration tests do actually help
you with refactorings in the sense that if
you wanna change how something works,
integration tests typically
give you a lot of leeway.
So for example, when I work on
my framework, which is QUIC,
there's a lot of integration tests that
basically create a little tiny program,
a little tiny scenario, like a counter.
And the counter has a button that you can
click on that increments the count and
then I assert that the DOM
on the output has updated.
I don't care how it did it internally and
who knows how much code had to execute in
order for
this thing to to actually happen.
All I'm saying is, hey, if I have this
tiny little program that represents
a counter and then I click on a button,
I want the count to increment, right?
That's a good integration test, because it
allows me to refactor how the internals
of the frameworks work without
necessarily forcing anything on the user.
And then, on the other extreme,
we have end-to-end tests.
And the end-to-end test
basically to think about it is,
I am pretending to be a user, right?
So you will probably open
up a real browser and
you will simulate real clicks and
you will go through a whole
testing scenario with it.
And these kinds of tests
are typically slow.
They tend to be flaky.
You might have to mock out databases,
and so
it just gets complicated to
write these kinds of tests.
They're still useful in a different way,
but it gets complicated.
And this is somebody was asking,
well, what about the role of the QA?
This is a perfect place where QA can help,
because they can help with setting up,
whether it is setting up mock databases so
that we have expected set
of orders in there, etc.
Or setting up a test harnesses or
easy way to assert what's happening,
what we call these page objects or
just things of that sort.